I was serving at the Austria branch from about mid-70s to 1990.
We had a small department that was assigned to help certain countries in Eastern Europe.
And that included visiting the brothers on the ban, bringing them spiritual food,
having secret meetings with them, and also the strengths of the local organization
that was exposed to persecution and ban.
We would print books on Bible paper and miniature size.
This way more books or literature could be taken to these countries.
The couriers, they transported literature to these countries in their own private cars.
This way hundreds of books could be transported.
At the border, if a courier would be found transporting literature,
they would interrogate the driver.
But these brothers were trained.
They knew what to say to protect the work and not give away any secrets.
Usually, after a day or two days, the officials would let them go back home to the home country.
But not with their car. They had to have public transportation.
Because the cars would be confiscated.
But the brothers had the spirit of sacrifice. They were willing to waste that.
But the majority got through, and actually every year, thousands of miniature books were transported secretly to Eastern Europe.
So it was not just a matter of us being so clever in hiding things, getting it to the brothers.
But we were always fully convinced and had evidence that it was Jehovah's Holy Spirit that helped us.
Also, we transported stencils for a local production.
So that in their countries, they could reproduce the same material with mimeographing machines.
In most cases, the mimeographing machines were transported secretly by the couriers.
The other method was to build it within the country.
I remember there was a brother that was a very skilled engineer.
And under his direction, they decided to build it themselves.
So they were self-made, offset printing presses.
The brothers had a number of underground printers that they had dug out under their own homes.
In many cases, the brothers had to do what they did during the night.
Because in communist countries, they had to go during the day to a factory or whatever else and do some secular work.
But it testifies to the great spirit of sacrifice that the brothers showed to forfeit so much of their private life as a family to do at night the printing of the spiritual faulty.
Some had only a few hours of sleep.
But they loved Jehovah and the brothers so much that they did it.
There was no kingdom hall.
The brothers had secret meetings in private homes and they would not all come at the same time.
Because if the neighbors would see certain persons all the time going to a specific house, there could be suspicions.
And every week, they had the meetings in a different home of the brothers.
And this helped to protect the work so that it could be kept secret.
Singing was very important for the brothers.
And they didn't have to have a song in hand.
They knew the texts of the song by heart.
And immediately, saying a number, they could sing the song.
That affected the heart, the emotions of the brothers.
So they were strengthened in their determination to be faithful.